README.md, before:

<div align="center">

  <h1>
    <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?font=Fira+Code&pause=1000&color=2E86C1&center=true&vCenter=true&width=640&lines=University+Course+Registration+System;Full+Stack+Application;Built+with+MERN+Stack" alt="Typing SVG" />
  </h1>

  <p>
    <b>A streamlined platform for managing university course registration.</b>
  </p>

  <p>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/react-%2320232a.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=%2361DAFB" alt="React" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white" alt="Node.js" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/express.js-%23404d59.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=%2361DAFB" alt="Express.js" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-%234ea94b.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white" alt="MongoDB" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/tailwindcss-%2338B2AC.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white" alt="Tailwind CSS" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-blue?style=for-the-badge" alt="License" />
  </p>

  <br />

  <!-- Placeholder for App Demo/Screenshot -->
  <img src="/Screenshot 2026-02-03 162925.png" alt="App Screenshot" width="800" />

  <br />
</div>

<br />

## 📖 Project Overview

**University Course Registration System** is a full-stack solution for managing student registration, course catalogs, and administrative oversight. It provides a clean experience for students to browse courses by level, register within credit limits, and view their registered courses, while giving admins tools to manage courses and monitor activity.

---

## ✨ Key Features

| Feature | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **🔐 Role-Based Access** | Secure authentication for Students and Admins using JWT. |
| **📚 Course Catalog** | Browse courses by level, with optional carry-over inclusion. |
| **✅ Registration Workflow** | Register courses with validation and a 36-unit max limit. |
| **📄 Registered Courses View** | Clear summary tables for enrolled courses. |
| **📊 Admin Dashboard** | Overview stats and management tools for courses and users. |
| **🎨 Modern UI/UX** | Responsive interface built with Tailwind CSS. |

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

<div align="center">

### Frontend
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=flat&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-646CFF?style=flat&logo=vite&logoColor=white)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=flat&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)

### Backend
![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-6DA55F?style=flat&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)
![ExpressJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express.js-404D59?style=flat&logo=express&logoColor=white)

### Database
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-4EA94B?style=flat&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)

</div>

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

Follow these instructions to set up the project locally.

### Prerequisites

*   **Node.js** (v18 or higher)
*   **npm** or **yarn**
*   **MongoDB** (Local instance or Atlas URI)

### Installation

#### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/university-course-reg.git
cd university-course-reg
```

#### 2. Backend Setup
Navigate to the server directory and install dependencies.
```bash
cd server
npm install
```

Create a `.env` file in the `server/` root and configure the following:
```env
PORT=5000
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/course_reg_db
JWT_SECRET=your_super_secure_jwt_secret
```

Start the server (with seeding optional):
```bash
# Seed the database (optional: clears data and adds defaults)
npm run seed

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

#### 3. Frontend Setup
Open a new terminal tab and navigate to the client directory.
```bash
cd client
npm install
```

Start the React development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

🚀 **The app should now be running at** `http://localhost:5173`

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```bash
/
├── client/              # React Frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/  # Reusable UI Components
│   │   ├── hooks/       # Client data and state hooks
│   │   ├── pages/       # Application Routes/Views
│   │   └── ...
├── server/              # Node.js Backend
│   ├── controllers/     # Route Logic
│   ├── models/          # Mongoose Schemas
│   ├── routes/          # API Endpoints
│   └── ...
├── package.json         # Root dependencies
└── README.md            # You are here
```

---

## 🔌 API Overview

Base URL: `http://localhost:5000/api`

### Auth

- `POST /auth/signup`
- `POST /auth/login`

### Courses

- `GET /courses/all?level=100&includeLevels=200,300`
- `POST /courses/register`
- `GET /courses/registered`

### Admin

- `GET /admin/stats`
- `GET /admin/students`
- `GET /admin/courses`
- `POST /admin/courses`

---

## 🧪 Scripts

From `server/package.json`:

- Seed courses:
  ```bash
  cd server
  npm run seed
  ```
  Uses `server/scripts/seedDatabase.js`.

- Seed test users:
  ```bash
  cd server
  npm run seed:users
  ```
  Uses `server/scripts/seedUsers.js`.

- Admin API smoke tests:
  ```bash
  cd server
  npm run test:admin
  npm run test:smoke
  ```
  Uses `server/scripts/testAdminEndpoints.js` and `server/scripts/testSmokeEndpoints.js`.
  Requires `ADMIN_EMAIL`, `ADMIN_PASSWORD`, and optional `ADMIN_TEST_BASE_URL` in `server/.env.test`.

---

## 📝 Notes

- Course registration enforces a 36-unit maximum on the server.
- Client session data is stored in `sessionStorage` using keys from `client/src/constants/storageKeys.js`.

---

## 📄 License

ISC (see `server/package.json`).

Commit message:

Makes API base URL configurable via environment variable
Enables configuration of the API base URL through an environment
variable, improving flexibility for different environments.
Updates documentation to guide setup and clarify usage.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

  <h1>
    <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?font=Fira+Code&pause=1000&color=2E86C1&center=true&vCenter=true&width=640&lines=University+Course+Registration+System;Full+Stack+Application;Built+with+MERN+Stack" alt="Typing SVG" />
  </h1>

  <p>
    <b>A streamlined platform for managing university course registration.</b>
  </p>

  <p>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/react-%2320232a.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=%2361DAFB" alt="React" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white" alt="Node.js" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/express.js-%23404d59.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=%2361DAFB" alt="Express.js" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-%234ea94b.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white" alt="MongoDB" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/tailwindcss-%2338B2AC.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white" alt="Tailwind CSS" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-blue?style=for-the-badge" alt="License" />
  </p>

  <br />

  <!-- Placeholder for App Demo/Screenshot -->
  <img src="/Screenshot 2026-02-03 162925.png" alt="App Screenshot" width="800" />

  <br />
</div>

<br />

## 📖 Project Overview

**University Course Registration System** is a full-stack solution for managing student registration, course catalogs, and administrative oversight. It provides a clean experience for students to browse courses by level, register within credit limits, and view their registered courses, while giving admins tools to manage courses and monitor activity.

---

## ✨ Key Features

| Feature | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **🔐 Role-Based Access** | Secure authentication for Students and Admins using JWT. |
| **📚 Course Catalog** | Browse courses by level, with optional carry-over inclusion. |
| **✅ Registration Workflow** | Register courses with validation and a 36-unit max limit. |
| **📄 Registered Courses View** | Clear summary tables for enrolled courses. |
| **📊 Admin Dashboard** | Overview stats and management tools for courses and users. |
| **🎨 Modern UI/UX** | Responsive interface built with Tailwind CSS. |

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

<div align="center">

### Frontend
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=flat&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-646CFF?style=flat&logo=vite&logoColor=white)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=flat&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)

### Backend
![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-6DA55F?style=flat&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)
![ExpressJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express.js-404D59?style=flat&logo=express&logoColor=white)

### Database
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-4EA94B?style=flat&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)

</div>

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

Follow these instructions to set up the project locally.

### Prerequisites

*   **Node.js** (v18 or higher)
*   **npm** or **yarn**
*   **MongoDB** (Local instance or Atlas URI)

### Installation

#### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/university-course-reg.git
cd university-course-reg
```

#### 2. Backend Setup
Navigate to the server directory and install dependencies.
```bash
cd server
npm install
```

Create a `.env` file in the `server/` root and configure the following:
```env
PORT=5000
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/course_reg_db
JWT_SECRET=your_super_secure_jwt_secret
```

Start the server (with seeding optional):
```bash
# Seed the database (optional: clears data and adds defaults)
npm run seed

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

#### 3. Frontend Setup
Open a new terminal tab and navigate to the client directory.
```bash
cd client
npm install
```

Start the React development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

Create a `.env` file in `client/` or copy from `.env.example`:
```env
VITE_API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:5000/api
```

🚀 **The app should now be running at** `http://localhost:5173`

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```bash
/
├── client/              # React Frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/  # Reusable UI Components
│   │   ├── hooks/       # Client data and state hooks
│   │   ├── pages/       # Application Routes/Views
│   │   └── ...
├── server/              # Node.js Backend
│   ├── controllers/     # Route Logic
│   ├── models/          # Mongoose Schemas
│   ├── routes/          # API Endpoints
│   └── ...
├── package.json         # Root dependencies
└── README.md            # You are here
```

---

## 🔌 API Overview

Base URL: `http://localhost:5000/api` (configurable via `VITE_API_BASE_URL`)

### Auth

- `POST /auth/signup`
- `POST /auth/login`

### Courses

- `GET /courses/all?level=100&includeLevels=200,300`
- `POST /courses/register`
- `GET /courses/registered`

### Admin

- `GET /admin/stats`
- `GET /admin/students`
- `GET /admin/courses`
- `POST /admin/courses`

---

## 🧪 Scripts

From `server/package.json`:

- Seed courses:
  ```bash
  cd server
  npm run seed
  ```
  Uses `server/scripts/seedDatabase.js`.

- Seed test users:
  ```bash
  cd server
  npm run seed:users
  ```
  Uses `server/scripts/seedUsers.js`.

- Admin API smoke tests:
  ```bash
  cd server
  npm run test:admin
  npm run test:smoke
  ```
  Uses `server/scripts/testAdminEndpoints.js` and `server/scripts/testSmokeEndpoints.js`.
  Requires `ADMIN_EMAIL`, `ADMIN_PASSWORD`, and optional `ADMIN_TEST_BASE_URL` in `server/.env.test`.

---

## 📝 Notes

- Course registration enforces a 36-unit maximum on the server.
- Client session data is stored in `sessionStorage` using keys from `client/src/constants/storageKeys.js`.

---

## 📄 License

ISC (see `server/package.json`).
